---
title: "Impact of heterogeneity and socioeconomic factors"
authors:
  - ""
date: 2014-01-01
publication: ""
abstract: ""
url_pdf: "AGavalda-Miralles-PNAS14.pdf"
featured: false
---

{{< spoiler text="Abstract" >}}

on individual behavior in decentralized sharing ecosystems Arnau Gavaldà-Mirallesa,b,c, David R. Choffnesd, John S. Ottoe, Mario A. Sáncheze, Fabián E. Bustamantee, Luís A. N. Amaralc,f,g,h, Jordi Ducha,1, and Roger Guimeràb,i Departamentsad’Enginyeria Informàtica i Matemàtiques andbd’Enginyeria Química, Universitat Rovira i Virgili, 43007 Tarragona, Spain; Departments of cChemical and Biological Engineering,eElectrical Engineering and Computer Science, andfPhysics and Astronomy,gNorthwestern Institute on Complex Systems, andhHoward Hughes Medical Institute, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 60208;dDepartment of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-2350; andiInstitució Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), 08010 Barcelona, Spain Edited by Alessandro Vespignani, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, and accepted by the Editorial Board September 10, 2014 (received for review M ay 31, 2013) Tens of millions of individuals around the world use decentralized content distribution systems, a fact of growing social, economic, and technological importance. These sharing systems are poorly understood because, unlike in other technosocial systems, it is dif- ficult to gather large-scale data about user behavior. Here, we in- vestigate user activity patterns and the socioeconomic factors that could explain the behavior. Our analysis reveals that ( i) the ecosys- tem is heterogeneous at several levels: content types are heteroge- neous, users specialize in a few content types, and countries are heterogeneous in user profiles; and ( ii) there is a strong correlation between socioeconomic indicators of a country and users behavior. Our findings open a research area on the dynamics of decentralized sharing ecosystems and the socioeconomic factors affecting them, and may have implications for the design of algorithms and for policymaking. human activity |Internet |content sharing |privacy |BitTorrent Every month, ∼150 million users worldwide share files over the Internet using BitTorrent (1), the most widely used decen- tralized peer-to-peer (P2P) communication protocol. Eleven years after its inception, file sharing through BitTorrent is one of the top three major contributors to the overall Internet traffic, accounting for 9 –27% of the total traffic, depending on the continent (2, 3). The expansion in scale and breadth of decentralized file- sharing has highlighted the conflicts between the interests of cre- ators (musicians and writers, e.g.) and those of P2P users. Creators and creative industries argue that they are being deprived of fair compensation for their work (4), which is being widely distributed for free in violation of copyright laws. Users, however, argue that P2P can be (and is) used for sharing nonproprietary contents, and warn that widespread monitoring of online activity by corporations and law enforcement violates P2P users ’right to privacy. Proof of the complexity of the situation includes the rejection of the Anti- Counterfeiting Trade Agreement by the European Parliament and the controversy with the Stop Online Piracy Act in the United States. Despite the growing social, economic, and technological im- portance of BitTorrent (4), there is currently little understanding of how users behave in this complex technosocial (5, 6) ecosys- tem. Due to the decentralized structure of P2P ecosystems, it is very difficult to gather large-scale data about interactions and behavioral patterns of the users without their explicit consent; this is in contrast to other forms of online exchange where all of the information is stored in a central system, be it publicly accessible as in Wikipedia (7), partially accessible through a public interface as in Twitter (8, 9) or Google [through its search logs (10) or its public services (11, 12)], or restricted as in Facebook (13, 14) or in email communications within organizations (15 –18).Because of the difficulty to collect complete user-level data of large and representative samples of users (3), studies of user be- havior in P2P networks have so far been based on ( i) small datasets; (ii) aggregate data collected from “trackers ”or from individual Internet service providers (ISPs); and ( iii) incomplete user data collected using a single crawler client connected to the net- work (19 –23). Here, we investigate the complete activity patterns of a large and representative pool of BitTorrent users. Our analysis reveals that P2P sharing is highly heterogeneous, that users are special- ized, giving rise to well-defined user profiles, and that the abun- dance of certain user profiles in a country is highly correlated with socioeconomic factors. Our findings open a research area on the dynamics of decentralized sharing ecosystems, and may have implications for the understanding and design of algorithms and for policymaking. Data We collected anonymized user activity data during the period March 2009 to October 2013 from more than 1.4 million users of the Ono plugin who gave informed consent for the use of their sharing behavior for research purposes (24) ( SI Appendix ). To protect the privacy of these users, we restricted our data collection Significance The emergence of the Internet as the primary medium for in- formation exchange has led to the development of many de- centralized sharing systems. The most popular among them, BitTorrent, is used by tens of millions of people monthly and is responsible for more than one-third of the total Internet traffic. Despite its growing social, economic, and technological impor- tance, there is little understanding of how users behave in this ecosystem. Because of the decentralized structure of peer-to- peer services, it is very difficult to gather data on users behaviors, and it is in this sense that peer-to-peer file-sharing has been called the “dark matter ”of the Internet. Here, we investigate users activity patterns and uncover socioeconomic factors that could explain their behavior. Author contributions: A.G.-M., F.E.B., L.A.N.A., J.D., and R.G. designed research; A.G.-M., L.A.N.A., J.D., and R.G. performed research; A.G.-M., D.R.C., J.S.O., M.A.S., F.E.B., L.A.N.A., J.D., and R.G. analyzed data; and A.G.-M., D.R.C., F.E.B., L.A.N.A., J.D., and R.G. wrote the paper. The authors declare no conflict of interest. This article is a PNAS Direct Submission. A.V. is a guest editor invited by the Editorial Board. Freely available online through the PNAS open access option. 1To whom correspondence should be addressed. Email: jordi.duch@urv.cat. This article contains supporting information online at www.pnas.org/lookup/suppl/doi:10. 1073/pnas.1309389111/-/DCSupplemental . www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.1309389111 PNAS Early Edition |1o f6 COMPUTER SCIENCES SOCIAL SCIENCES to country of residency of the user, time of initiation of file sharing, and size of the shared file. We did not collect the name of the file or its content type classification. Although users of the Ono plugin constitute only ∼1% of estimated BitTorrent users, we found that they are a representative sample of the BitTorrent ecosystem both in terms of country representation (3) and the sizes of the files they share ( SI Appendix ,F i g .S 2 ). We define active users for a given month of interest as those individuals that reported sharing activity during that month, and also during the prior and subsequent months ( SI Appendix ). From the complete log files for each month, which once compressed are ∼100 gigabytes each, we extracted the complete set of sharing interactions of active users for 11 distinct months ( SI Appendix ). We report here results for the 9,783 active users during March 2009, who shared 217,982 different files for a total of 10,976,607 downloads. As we show in SI Appendix ,F i g s .S 9 –S13, the findings we report for March 2009 hold for all other months considered. Results File Sizes Are Informative of Content Types. As we show in Fig. 1, file size is informative of content types. The file size distribution has six major peaks corresponding to file sizes preferred by users (Fig. 1 A), in agreement with results derived from aggregate data (22). Some of these peaks are clearly related to physical support [e.g., the peak around 830 megabytes (MB) reflects that many files are likely stored in compact disks]; other peaks are likely related to content types [e.g., a 40-min television (TV) show requires a file size of 200 –400 MB]. To establish a relationship between file size and content type, we randomly sampled 456,949 torrents from a widely used BitTorrent repository. The metadata for these torrents includes both file size and content category. We determine the most common content classes for the file size classes suggested by the peaks ( SI Appendix and Fig. 1 B). We find that, for all size classes, a small number of content categories accounts for a dispropor- tionately large fraction of the files. For example, high-resolution movies and pornographic movies account for over 60% of all files with sizes between 831 MB and 1,650 MB. Based on this ob- servation, we define seven content types as follows (Fig. 1 B): Small (accounts for 17% of all downloads in our database), Music (18%), TV Shows (12%), Movies Low Definition (LD; 26%), Movies Standard Definition (14%), Movies High Definition (HD; 9%), and Large (4%).User Behavior Is Remarkably Predictable. We use the ability to infer the content type to investigate whether users participate in the ecosystem as generalists (i.e., sharing according to the average proportions observed for all content types) or as specialists (i.e., focusing on a small number of types). As we show in Fig. 2 A, most users have a strong tendency toward sharing only one or two content types. In particular, for 96% of the users, their two most downloaded content typ es account for more than 50% of their downloads. Therefore, mos t users behave as specialists, at least within our current classi fication of content types (we cannot establish to what extent users are specialists/generalists at a finer scale, e.g., if they download movies of a single genre or several genres). Because most users behave as specialists we surmise that they can be clustered into groups with common sharing behaviors. We use hierarchical clustering to group the 9,783 active users and define 17 different user profiles (alternative clusterings do not change the conclusions of the paper; SI Appendix ). In Fig. 2 Bwe display the average sharing behavior of users in each of the groups. To further quantify the degree of specialization, we measure the effective number E of contents downloaded by a user or a group of users, which we define as E=1=P if2 i;with fibeing the fraction of all downloads that are of content type i(SI Appendix ) (25). For example, if a user downloaded three content types, each amounting to one-third of the user ’s downloads, then E=3. A user sharing content according to the overall probabilities would have E=5:7. Whereas 13 of the 17 average user profiles have 1 :7≤E≤3:8, four have 4 :5≤E≤6:3. Based on this obser- vation, we define specialist user profiles (if the average user profile has E<4:5) and generalist user profiles (if the average user profile has E≥4:5). Even users that we classify as generalist are on average more specialized that a hypothetical perfect gen- eralist that downloads contents types with the average proportions of each content type (Fig. 2 C). An important consequence of the fact that most users behave as specialists is that even a few downloads from a user are highly informative of the user ’s profile and, therefore, of their future sharing behavior. Just five downloads enable us to correctly identify the profile of more than 50% of the specialists (Fig. 2 D). The assignment accuracy increases to 75% for 100 observed downloads. Similarly, one can accurately predict the next content type that a specialist user will download ( SI Appendix ). Significantly, the high predictability of user behaviors raises the concern of threats to privacy and guilt-by-association attacks (26, 27). AB Fig. 1. File sizes define distinct content types. ( A) For each user, we collect the size of the files they downloaded. We plot the distribution of all those file sizes, with sizes binned logarithmically. This distribution has pronounced peaks at 14 MB, 195 MB, 400 MB, 830 MB, 1.65 GB, and 5.6 GB. Based on these pea ks, we define seven file size ranges (alternating white and gray bands). ( B) File size ranges can be associated to distinct content types. We randomly sample half a million torrents at “The Pirate Bay ”and analyze their content categories as a function of their sizes. For each file size range, 1 –3 categories account for most of the observed files. For example, for file sizes in the range 196 –400 MB, which we denote as Videos of TV Shows, accounts for 40% of all files. For each size range, we color and name all categories that account for more than 10% of the files in the range and that are significantly overrepresented, P<0:05, with respect to a null model in which categories are uniformly distributed among file size ranges ( SI Appendix ). 2o f6 |www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.1309389111 Gavaldà-Miralles et al.

{{< /spoiler >}}
